# Time Series Visualization 
Time-Series Visualization Assignment 1 for Data Visualization and Exploration(CPSC4530)

# Dataset 1: Housing Data for Austalian Select Market
## Description
  The original data-set is from Kaggle and consists of a time-series for the housing market in Australia. The data does not fully encompass the Australian housing market, rather it is a subset for specific area codes (as defined in the data). The first and foremost piece is the time-series which starts as early as February 2nd 2007 and goes all the way to July 26th 2019. The data can be accessed via Kaggle from the website: 
https://www.kaggle.com/htagholdings/property-sales


## Dataset Format and Type
  The data from Kaggle is a flat table that consists of the 13 years of housing market data throughout certain districts in Australia which includes the date, area code, price of the home, type of property purchased, and the number of bedrooms the property has. Each record in the data-set is a single instance of a property purchase which includes the respective information about the home. The “Price” column is a numerical number for the purchase price, the “propertyType” column is a binary string of either ‘house’ or ‘unit’ , the “bedrooms” column is a numerical number for the number of bedrooms, and the “datasold” column is the Time-Series instance of when it was sold. The “postcode” column is a numerical number for the area code. We are not including the postcode in this analysis. Further analysis using map visualization will use this postcode. 

## Attibute Types and Semantics
  The most important pieces from the data that I decided to visualize is of course the time series data but also the overall trend of the housing market. The semantics of the “Price” column is as it implies, the price of the home purchased. There is also the “propertyType” column which has to do with whether the purchased property was either a house or a unit (another word for apartment). There are only two values for this column and they are : House , and Unit. The last column used in the analysis and visualization is the “Bedrooms” column. The bedroom column is a numerical number representing each data-piece as the number of bedrooms the property has. The values range from 1-bedroom all the way up to 5-bedrooms. The postcode is the area code for which that property was purchased, but since we are not visualizing the area we are not including this in the analysis. From viewing the data it does appear that each of these data-points are single instances and further analysis should use each data-point together to paint the whole picture of the data. 

## Preprocessing
  Since the data consists of multiple values (“Bedrooms” column can have up to 5 , “propertyType” column can have either ‘unit’ or ‘house’ ) it was decided to split the data up into their respective groups to make the visualization more viewable. The meaning behind this is that the data was sectioned off based on the number of bedrooms and the housing type. I.e Time-Series analysis for 1-Bedroom Houses , or Time-Series analysis for 2-Bedroom Units . It is important to note the “postcode” column in the data-set was not touched due to us not using it for this analysis. The data was processed using pandas to subset the data into their own respective data-frames for analysis.  Using pandas subsetting technique like shown below: 
`one_bedroom_data = df.loc[(df["bedrooms"] == 1) & (df["propertyType"] == "house")]`
  Subsets the data where we can change the bedroom number and the property type to slice the data how we need it. This was done in order to have an easier data-set to work with and cut down on the processing time due to not looping over the data each time we want to subset and visualize. 

## Visualization

# Analysis
  From viewing the data on the graphs, one can tell that there are plenty of outliers, specifically the property price when it jumps anywhere above the $4,000,000 range (It is also important to note the numbers representing the price of the properties is in Australian currency rather than the United States currency we are use to, where $1 USD = $1.40 AUD) . The graphs we need to address are the 1-Bedroom Houses, 4-Bedroom Units, 5-Bedroom Units. From seeing these graphs there is very little data-points to consistently point towards an overall trend. From what the data reports one can see that there are very few instances of four and five bedroom units so the visualizations reflect that as well. The Table below outlines these low-reported data points in more detail for reference.
 ADD TABLE HERE
 Due to the low-number of instances it cannot be reported with certainty that the prices of these property types are increasing or decreasing with the data we are given. However, with the other visualizations that have a larger number of instances we can see some more information. More specifically, each visualization that does not have a low number of instances can be seen as increasing over the time-series. What is meant by this is that the data shows that over time the price of each type of property (Both houses and units) are increasing at a steady rate. Even if we bar the outliers from the analysis the trend does appear to be going upwards for the Australian housing market. It is important to note that this is just a simple visualization and further analysis of the overall Australian Housing market will be needing more specific data and more information rather than just the raw numbers. In conclusion, in each visualization over time (excluding the three property types with low number of instances) does show an increasing cost in regards to the price of the home. 

